+++
title = 'Large Scale Visualization on the Cray XT3 Using ParaView'
+++

{{% pubtitle %}}Large Scale Visualization on the Cray XT3 Using ParaView{{% /pubtitle %}}.
Kenneth Moreland, David Rogers, John Greenfield, Berk Geveci, Patrick Marion, Alexander Neundorf, and Kent Eschenberg.
In _Cray User Group_, 2008.

## Abstract

Post-processing and visualization are key components to understanding any
simulation. Porting ParaView, a scalable visualization tool, to the Cray XT3
allows our analysts to leverage the same supercomputer they use for simulation
to perform post-processing. Visualization tools traditionally rely on a variety
of rendering, scripting, and networking resources; the challenge of running
ParaView on the Lightweight Kernel is to provide and use the visualization and
post-processing features in the absence of many OS resources. We have
successfully accomplished this at Sandia National Laboratories and the
Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center.

## Full Paper

{{% pubtitle %}}[Large Scale Visualization on the Cray XT3 Using ParaView](PVCrayXT3.pdf){{% /pubtitle %}}

## Supplemental Materials

* [Slides presented at the Cray User Group]
* The movie discussed in the paper generated by ParaView on a Cray XT3:
  [xt3_cut_20080418.mpg]

[Slides presented at the Cray User Group]: PVCrayXT3.ppt
[xt3_cut_20080418.mpg]: xt3_cut_20080418.mpg

## Follow Up Timings

As the deadline to the paper approached, we were still running performance
measurements on Pittsburgh Supercomputer Center's Bigben Cray XT3 computer. We
did not have time to put them in the paper, but here is summary of some metrics
taken directly from the functional units that ran during the visualization. All
measurements are given in seconds.

| # Proc | 128   | 256  |  512 |
| :----- | ----: | ---: | ---: |
| Read   | 127.8&nbsp; | 93.8&nbsp; | 97.7&nbsp; |
| Cut    |  5.66 | 2.84 | 1.45 |
| Render |  1.57 | 0.85 | 0.49 |
